V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-PLATFORM/MASWE-0038.md

Reviewer: DONE

---
title: WebViews Loading Untrusted Content
id: MASWE-0038
alias: webviews-untrusted-content

> requirement: "The app does not allow WebViews to load untrusted content."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requirement: "The app only allows trusted content in WebViews."
```
Suggestion for consistency

platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [L1, L2]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0038
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0047, MAS-ATTACK-0051]
mappings:
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-PLATFORM-2, MASVS-CODE-4]
  cwe: [79, 601, 829]
  android-risks:
  - cross-app-scripting
  - unsafe-uri-loading
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0071, MASWE-0070, MASWE-0072]
refs:
- https://blog.oversecured.com/Evernote-Universal-XSS-theft-of-all-cookies-from-all-sites-and-more/
status: new
---

## Overview

This weakness occurs when a WebView loads URLs, HTML, or JavaScript from untrusted sources, or lets users navigate to arbitrary sites outside the developer's control.

> WebViews often run with app-specific privileges, such as JavaScript bridges, cookies, and stored sessions, so loading untrusted content into them is far more dangerous than opening it in the system browser. A URL received via an intent or deep link, or JavaScript fetched from an unverified source, can lead to cross-site scripting, including Universal XSS, allowing an attacker to steal cookies and tokens from any site, perform phishing, or trigger drive-by downloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebViews run with app-specific privileges and often use JavaScript bridges to communicate between the web sandbox and the app to access contacts, local files, the device location, or its camera. Loading untrusted content into WebViews is therefore more dangerous than opening it in an external browser.
 
A URL received via an intent or deep link, or JavaScript fetched from an unverified source, can lead to cross-site scripting, including Universal XSS, allowing an attacker to steal cookies and tokens from any site, perform phishing attacks, or trigger drive-by downloads. Actors can also access functionality outside the web sandbox using JavaScript bridges declared by the developers.
```

## Modes of Introduction

> - **Unrestricted Navigation**: Not restricting which origins the WebView may load (e.g. via `WebViewClient.shouldOverrideUrlLoading` or navigation delegates), letting users or content navigate anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Unrestricted Navigation**: Not restricting which origins the WebView may load (e.g. via `WebViewClient.shouldOverrideUrlLoading` or navigation delegates), letting users or content navigate anywhere directly, or loading domains that can be used to navigate to attacker-controlled domains.
```

REMARK: I'm thinking of embedding a help page with links to social media sites and then navigating to an attacker-controlled page.

---
title: WebViews Loading Untrusted Content
id: MASWE-0038
alias: webviews-untrusted-content
requirement: "The app only allows trusted content in WebViews."
platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [L1, L2]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0038
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0047, MAS-ATTACK-0051]
mappings:
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-PLATFORM-2, MASVS-CODE-4]
  cwe: [79, 601, 829]
  android-risks:
  - cross-app-scripting
  - unsafe-uri-loading
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0071, MASWE-0070, MASWE-0072]
refs:
- https://blog.oversecured.com/Evernote-Universal-XSS-theft-of-all-cookies-from-all-sites-and-more/
status: new
---

## Overview

This weakness occurs when a WebView loads URLs, HTML, or JavaScript from untrusted sources, or lets users navigate to arbitrary sites outside the developer's control.

> WebViews run with app-specific privileges and often use JavaScript bridges to communicate between the web sandbox and the app to access contacts, local files, the device location, or its camera. Loading untrusted content into WebViews is therefore more dangerous than opening it in an external browser.

Author: ```suggestion
WebViews run with app-specific privileges and often use JavaScript bridges (see @MASWE-0036) to communicate between the web sandbox and the app to access contacts, local files, the device location, or its camera. Loading untrusted content into WebViews is therefore more dangerous than opening it in an external browser.
```

- **Untrusted Script Inclusion**: Loading JavaScript from unverified sources into pages rendered by the WebView.
- **Safe Browsing Disabled**: Disabling platform protections such as Safe Browsing that warn about known-malicious sites.
- **Deprecated WebView Components**: Using deprecated WebView implementations that lack modern process isolation and security protections.

## Impact

- **Compromise of Sensitive Data**: Attackers can steal cookies, tokens, or displayed data from any origin via cross-site scripting in the privileged WebView, resulting in unauthorized disclosure of session material and user data.
- **Authentication or Authorization Bypass**: Attackers can reuse stolen session cookies or tokens, resulting in account takeover across the sites the WebView had sessions with.
- **Loss of User Trust**: Attackers can render phishing pages or trigger unwanted downloads inside the app's own UI, resulting in users being deceived under the app's identity and reputational damage for the app owner.

## Mitigations

- **Allowlist Navigation**: Restrict the WebView to an allowlist of trusted origins and open everything else in the system browser.

> - **Validate Externally Supplied URLs**: Treat URLs arriving via intents or deep links as untrusted input and validate them before loading (see @MASWE-0032).

Author: and 0035 (intents)? and MASWE-0048	Unsafe Handling of Untrusted Data?

> - **Validate Externally Supplied URLs**: Treat URLs arriving via intents or deep links as untrusted input and validate them before loading (see @MASWE-0032).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Validate Externally Supplied URLs**: Treat URLs arriving via intents or deep links as untrusted input and validate them before loading (see @MASWE-0038).
```
